.TH SES-LED-CONTROL 1 "2026-07-16" "ses-led-control 0.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ses-led-control \- SES disk-slot overview and Identify/Fault LED control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ses-led-control
.RB [ --dry-run ]
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ses-led-control
lists every device slot of every SCSI Enclosure Services (SES) enclosure on the
host, including empty slots. For each slot it shows the installed disk (device
node, serial, model, size, firmware), the slot status, and the state of the
IDENT (locate) and FAULT LEDs. LEDs can be toggled from an interactive menu or
switched non-interactively from the command line.
.PP
Disks are mapped to slots by SAS address using the enclosure's Additional
Element Status
.RB ( aes )
page; slot status and LED state are read from the Enclosure Status
.RB ( es )
page. LEDs are switched with
.BR sg_ses (8)
via
.BR "--index=<type>,<idx> --set|--clear=ident|fault" .
.PP
This only works on backplanes that actually implement SES (most Supermicro and
LSI expander backplanes attached to an HBA in IT mode do). Both the
.B Array device slot
and
.B Device slot
element types are handled automatically.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B (no command)
Start the interactive slot table and LED toggle menu. In the menu, enter a row
number to toggle its IDENT LED,
.BI f n
to toggle its FAULT LED,
.B x
to clear all LEDs,
.B r
to reload, and
.B q
to quit.
.TP
.B list
Print the slot table and exit.
.TP
.BI "ident on|off " target
Turn the IDENT (locate) LED of
.I target
on or off.
.TP
.BI "fault on|off " target
Turn the FAULT LED of
.I target
on or off.
.TP
.B off-all
Clear all IDENT and FAULT LEDs on every enclosure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --dry-run
Print the
.BR sg_ses (8)
commands that would be run, without executing them. Works without root.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show usage and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show the version and exit.
.SH TARGETS
.I target
is one of:
.TP
.BR /dev/sd X " or " sd X
a block device
.TP
.I serial
a disk serial number, as shown in the table
.TP
.BI sg N : slot
an enclosure device and slot index, e.g.
.BR sg3:7 .
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.BR sg_ses (8)
from sg3-utils,
.BR lsblk (8)
from util-linux,
.BR lsscsi (8)
and
.BR awk (1).
Switching LEDs requires root;
.BR list ", " --help " and " --version
do not.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all slots:
.B ses-led-control list
.TP
Locate the disk with serial Z1234ABC:
.B sudo ses-led-control ident on Z1234ABC
.TP
Mark /dev/sdf as faulty:
.B sudo ses-led-control fault on /dev/sdf
.TP
Preview the command without touching hardware:
.B ses-led-control --dry-run fault on sg3:7
.TP
Clear every LED:
.B sudo ses-led-control off-all
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
success
.TP
.B 1
runtime error (missing dependency, no enclosure, not root, target not found)
.TP
.B 2
unknown command
.SH SECURITY
This tool switches LEDs on real hardware and must run as root to do so. It never
writes to disks and performs no destructive action beyond changing LED state.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sg_ses (8),
.BR lsblk (8),
.BR lsscsi (8),
.BR awk (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Niclas Müller
